# Email Templates

Here you can create an email template to be used in the invite/response campaigns.

* **SAVE** - If template is not published only saves the template, if template is published then updates published templates as well.
* **PUBLISH** - Publishes the template to ESP (Email service provider) so it can be used in the campaign. Publishing email template can take 10-30s and sometimes it can timeout. If you see error after publishing try to go back to previous page and open the template again to see if it is marked as published.
 * **SEND TEST EMAIL** - (Only when published) Sends a test email to a given email address. Note that all placeholder values will use a dummy order and review invite link will use a link to StackTome rather than your Trustpilot link. To do a full campaign test with actual customer order & generated review links, you will need to use "Test mode" in the campaign itself. Refer to [Campaign](/invites/campaign.md) for more info.

* **Name** - Template name. We recommend naming structure as follows - {campaign_type}-{campaign-shortname}-{version}-{language}, for example for Recent invite campaign 1st version for english, would be: invite-recent-v1-en. Once name is set it cannot be changed. However you can always copy the tempalte in the template list page.
- **Published** - Determines the status of your email template if it's published to the ESP or not yet.
- **Visual/Code** - Gives you an option to edit email template either using a visual editor or HTML (can be imported from other platforms like Klaviyo). Note once Code is set it cannot be changed back to Visual.

## Template type - Invite

* - Email template that is available only in invitation campaigns for both invite & reminder step. To add a placeholder value, click on any text area in the email and click on "Merge TaInvitegs" - as alternative you can use {{field_name}}, for example {{first_name}} - would be replace with customer Firstname. Here is a list of available fields:

    * **{{first_name}}** - Firstname of customer
    * **{{last_name}}** - Lastname of customer
    * **{{order_id}}** - Order ID that was made by customer
    * **{{order_timestamp}}** - Timestamp when order was created
    *  **R** **{{review_invite_linke}}** - The link to leave a review, generated by the campaign, required
    * **{{review_target}}** - From which platform review is being requested
    * **R** **{{unsub unsubscribe_link}}** - Unsubscribe link, generated automatically, unless setting a custom unsubscribe link in the campaign. In which case adding as query param {{email_hash}} is required to identify the email, required
    * **{{email_hash}}** - Customers Email address hashed as SHA256, useful when need to identify customer in a safe way without exposing actual email address
    * **{{#if products}}{{#each products}}{{/each}}{{/if}}** - To Place info for each product purchased in the email and/or add product invite links
        * **{{brand}}** - Product brand
        * **{{image_url}}** - Image url for the product that can be placed in the email as thumbnail (taken from GS (Google Shopping) product feed)
        * **{{name}}** - Product name (GS feed)
        * **{{product_review_invite_link}}** - Product review invite link, generated by the campaign
        * **{{product_url}}** - Link to product where it was purchased (GS feed)
        * **{{sku}}** - SKU of the product (GS feed)

* **R** marked fields are required. 

## Template type - Response

* - Email template that is available only in invitation campaigns for both invite & reminder step. To add a placeholder value, click on any text area in the email and click on "Merge TaInvitegs" - as alternative you can use {{field_name}}, for example {{first_name}} - would be replace with customer Firstname. Here is a list of available fields:

Here is a quick tutorial how you can set your email templates.
<iframe width="640" height="366" src="https://www.loom.com/embed/f1f5efcf915646e5a7ce521d7c061cb9?sid=00569325-233a-4135-86fe-0b6318109e3c" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>